# Bio-fouling-Prediction
Biofouling or biological fouling is the accumulation of microorganisms, plants, algae, or small animals where it is not wanted on surfaces such as ship and submarine hulls, devices such as water inlets, pipework, grates, ponds, and rivers that cause degradation to the primary purpose of that item. Such accumulation is referred to as epibiosis when the host surface is another organism and the relationship is not parasitic. Since biofouling can occur almost anywhere water is present, biofouling poses risks to a wide variety of objects such as boat hulls and equipment, medical devices and membranes, as well as to entire industries, such as paper manufacturing, food processing, underwater construction, and desalination plants. (Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biofouling)

Ship owners (regardless of the size of their vessel) spend a good portion of their maintenance budget on hull cleaning. It is the process of carefully cleaning the organism growth (biofouling) from the hull of the vessel which remains submerged under the water, at the same time trying that the least minimum damage is inflicted on the protective paint layer. The idea behind this project is to try to build a data-driven model which predicts the amount of bio-fouling accumulation over time between cleaning cycles. In order to check if the ship hull is accumulating bio-fouling at any given point of time and to what extent, ship owners regularly inspect the hulls of their vessels either with the help of human divers or with under-water drones, which is more common these days. These under-water inspections are an intensive planning task for the ship owners, for which they need to take multiple important factors into account such as the route of the ship, the availability of such inspection services at the port, port-call duration etc. As a result the process becomes very cost intensive. A predictive model can help mitigate these costs by reducing the need for frequent under-water inspections.

The project is currently under Data Collection phase. Stay tuned for more updates!
